
#The Nexmo Verify SDK Sample App

The Nexmo Verify SDK Sample App shows you how to implement the Verify SDK into a mobile App. To use this sample:
1. <a href="#prereq">Prerequisites</a>
2. <a href="#import">Importing the Sample App</a>
3. <a href="#run">Running the Sample App</a>

## Prerequisites<a name="prereq"></a>

To develop with the Nexmo Verify SDK you need to:
1. Create a __Nexmo Account__. If you don't have one, register at: https://dashboard.nexmo.com/register.
2. In the Nexmo Dashboard, click *Tools* > *Verify SDK*.
3. Add your App information and click *Save*.
4. In the *My Apps* section of the page you see the:
* An __Id__: a 25 character AlNum that identifies each App that integrates the Nexmo Verify SDK.
* A __Shared Secret__: a 15 character AlNum generated by the system.
You use these identifiers so your App can interact with Nexmo services.
 **Note**:these identifiers are completely separate from your Nexmo __Key__ and __Secret__. You MUST NOT embed your Nexmo Key and Secret in your App.
5. Install <a href="http://developer.android.com/tools/studio/index.html"> Android Studio</a>.
6. Clone the Nexmo Verify SDK locally from: https://github.com/Nexmo/verify-android-sdk.


#Importing the Sample App<a name="import"></a>

To use the Nexmo Verify SDK sample app, you need to:

1. Open Android Studio.
2. In the Welcome page, click *Import project*.
3. In *Select Gradle Project to Import*, navigate to *&lt;git_home>/verify-android-sdk/VerifySample* and click *OK*.
4. If your project shows an error, install the tools suggested in Messages by Android Studio.
  Android Studio builds the project.
5. Set your __ID__ and __Shared Secret__ in *app/java/com.nexmo.sdk.sample.verifysample/Config*:
  ```java
    public static final String NexmoAppId = "yourAppId";
    public static final String NexmoSharedSecretKey = "YourSharedSecretKey";
```

**Note**: this is a sample, you should persist this information on your App.

#Running the Sample App<a name="run"></a>

To run this sample App:
1.Setup your mobile device to work with Android Studio: https://developer.android.com/tools/building/building-studio.html#RunningOnDeviceStudio.
2.Click *Run* > *Run*, then select your mobile device.
3.Follow the instructions in the App.
