
#The Nexmo Verify SDK PUSH enabled Sample App

The Nexmo Verify SDK sample App shows you how to implement the Verify SDK with Google Cloud Messaging (GCM) in an App you run on your mobile device. To run this app:

1. <a href="#prereq">Prerequisites</a>
2. <a href="#import">Importing the Sample App</a>
3. <a href="#run">Running the Sample App</a>

## Prerequisites<a name="prereq"></a>

To develop with the Nexmo Verify SDK you need to:

1. Create a __Nexmo Account__. If you don't have one, register at: https://dashboard.nexmo.com/register.
2. In the Nexmo Dashboard, click *Tools* > *Verify SDK*.
3. Add your App information and click *Save*.
4. In the *My Apps* section of the page you see the:
  * An __Id__: a 25 character AlNum that identifies each App that integrates the Nexmo Verify SDK.
  * A __Shared Secret__: a 15 character AlNum generated by the system.
  You use these identifiers so your App can interact with Nexmo services.
  **Note**:these identifiers are completely separate from your Nexmo __Key__ and __Secret__. You MUST NOT embed your Nexmo Key and Secret in your App.
5. Install <a href="http://developer.android.com/tools/studio/index.html"> Android Studio</a>.
6. Clone the Nexmo Verify SDK locally from: https://github.com/Nexmo/verify-android-sdk.


#Importing the Sample App<a name="import"></a>

To use the Nexmo Verify SDK sample app, you need to:

1. Open Android Studio.
2. In the Welcome page, click *Import project*.
3. In *Select Gradle Project to Import*, navigate to *&lt;git_home>/verify-android-sdk/VerifySample_PushEnabled* and click *OK*.
4. If your project shows an error, install the tools suggested in Messages by Android Studio.
  Android studio builds the project.
5. Set your __Application ID__ , __Shared Secret__ and __PushSenderID__  in *app/java/com.nexmo.sdk.sample.verifysample/Config*:
  ```java
    public static final String NexmoAppId = "yourAppId";
    public static final String NexmoSharedSecretKey = "YourSharedSecretKey";
    public static final String PushSenderID = "YourSenderID";
```

**Note**: Normally *PushSenderId* is your project ID supplied by Google. It is used as the GCM sender ID, all GCM registration token logic is handled in this sample. However, for this sample you can use the following *PushSenderId* : *919459387407*. To do this, contact Nexmo Customer Support and ask them to set the Push server API key value to 'AIzaSyAX5gR5ccrhN8WmDybuwV1LEJdELFAYVIM' when you create your configuration in the Nexmo Dashboard.

**Note**: this is a sample, you should persist this information on your App.

#Running the Sample App<a name="run"></a>

To run this sample App:

1. Setup your mobile terminal to work with Android Studio: https://developer.android.com/tools/building/building-studio.html#RunningOnDeviceStudio.
2. Click *Run* > *Run*, then select your mobile device.
3. Follow the instructions in the App.
Make sure to always update "Android Support Repository", "Android SDK Build Tools" from the SDK Manager.

Usage:

Main screen of the app contains a simple view for initiating a verify request.<br />
The country code spinner and phone number input field are pre-filled when possible.<br />
The SIGN IN button triggers a getUserStatus request that checks for the current user status.<br />
In case the user status is not VERIFIED, an automatic getVerifiedUser is triggered.<br />
If the verification can be initiated, the CheckCodeFragment is displayed that allows<br />
input for the PIN code.<br />
All events are printed in logcat and displayed as Toast messages.
